User Behaviour → User Experience (Causal)

Core Logic / Assumption:

UX → Perception → Emotion(check) → Behaviour → Business Outcome

Background:
The legacy of functionality first in B2B software has led to powerful, feature dense products. Although this means, they are clunky, unintuitive, and require a lot of training for it’s users. 
Why? (my opinion) Organisational disconnect. 
The buyer? → IT Department
The user? → Sales people, Marketers, Accountants etc. 
Usability by employees was an afterthought – (Quality of Life Category)

The Consumerization Shockwave:

→ Spotify, Netflix, Uber – Key quality? → Seamless, Intuitive, Short TTV (Time to value)

UX as a Business imperative:

Measure UX by lower CES (Consumer Effort Score) and low TTV. → Leads to Higher Adoption → Leads to Higher NRR (Net Revenue Retention) → higher CLV (Customer Lifetime Value) → Higher CLV: CAC ratio (CAC → Customer Acquisition Cost)

Experience to Value: (Behaviour Outcomes)

Engage with Sticky features, then Product → Indispensable
→ Segregate between core and Ancillary Features. 

Psychological Principles: 
Cognitive Load Theory → Progressive Disclosure of Options
Principle of Least Effort → Maximize user to Act

Problem in B2B Software: 
Productivity loss
Increased training and Support cost
Shelfware
Data Integrity

B2B should learn from PLG (Product Led Growth) as used in B2C SaaS. 

Case Studies: 
Salesforce
Atlassian
Adobe
Nokia
Extreme Networks

To Figure:
Lagging Indicators
Leading indicators
Technology Acceptance Model


Research Questions:
To what extent does the consumerization of IT influence the priority of UX in the purchasing and Evaluation Criteria for modern B2B SaaS platforms, compared to traditional solutions?
How does improved UX, measured by usability heuristics correlate with the adoption rates for both core and secondary features in B2B software?
Relationship between the feature adoption rates and key business metrics as churn or NRR?

References:
Industrial Product management – Book – Library
Proquest – Library access
Ebsco – Library Access

Technology Acceptance Model:
Planned Behavior
Theory of Reasoned Action
Unified Theory.. 

Keywords:
B2B Tech Usability. 
B2C bias in B2B world ( paper - google scholar)


